README.md, before:

## Forked by Nathan^2
+ dims more smoothly and uses xprintidle for detecting idleness
+ systemd timer used to run at boot
+ Regarding the touch screen, the device disables it after dimming the screen.  Then, when the user taps on the screen, it brightens the screen and enables the touch screen inputs. This way, we avoid propagating the mouse inputs when we can't see the screen. **(which was an issue in the original repo)**

- Con/Pro: The program disables energy star mode so that it can pick up touch events throughout the night.(This feature wasn't in the original repo)
- Con: A new issue is that when the user drags, xprintidle cannot detect it.

## Requirements
install these packages:
```
sudo apt-get install libpcre3 libpcre3-dev xprintidle
```

## Running
Simply type in the terminal of the project's directory:
```
make
sudo ./timeout 30 event0
```
where the 30 is 30 seconds of idleness

## Systemd file setup for running script at boot:
Enter into a terminal:
```
sudo systemctl edit --full backlight_dimmer.service
```
Enter the following into the new file:

**Note: Change the ExecStart to your location of the timeout script**
**Note: Change the User to your username(by default it is `pi` on raspberry pi)**
```
[Unit]
Description=Used to dim the raspberry pi's backlight upon idleness

[Service]
User=pi
ExecStartPre=/bin/sleep 11  # sleep time of 11 seconds
ExecStart=/home/pi/Documents/Github/myForks/backlight_dimmer/timeout 30 event0
Environment=DISPLAY=:0

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target

```
Then start it!

```
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl restart backlight_dimmer.service
sudo systemctl enable backlight_dimmer.service
```

-----
# Backlight dimmer
Leaving the backlight on the Official Raspberry Pi touchscreen can quickly wear it out.
If you have a use that requires the pi to be on all the time, but does not require the
display on all the time, then turning off the backlight while not in use can dramatically
increase the life of the backlight.

Backlight dimmer will transparently dim the display backlight after there
has been no input for a specifed timeout, independent of anything using the display
at the moment. It will then turn the touchscreen back on when input is received. The
timeout period is set by a command-line argument.

~**Note:** This does not stop the event from getting to whatever is running on the
display. Whatever is running will still receive an event, even if the display
is off.~ Fixed in this Fork

The program will use a linux event device like `/dev/input/event0` to receive events
from the touchscreen, keyboard, mouse, etc., and `/sys/class/backlight/rpi-backlight/brightness`
to dim the backlight. The event device is a command-line parameter without the
/dev/input/ path specification.


&copy; Copyright 2019, Dougie Lawson, all rights reserved.
&copy; Copyright 2020, Nathan Ramanathan, all rights reserved.

Commit message:

support for working with specific users, might fix dietpi distro...

README.md, after:

## Forked by Nathan^2
+ Pro: dims more smoothly and uses xprintidle for detecting idleness
+ Pro: systemd timer used to run at boot
+ Pro: Regarding the touch screen, the device disables it after dimming the screen.  Then, when the user taps on the screen, it brightens the screen and enables the touch screen inputs. This way, we avoid propagating the mouse inputs when we can't see the screen. **(which was an issue in the original repo)**

- Pro: Works on all Linux distros(that support the package requirements).
- Pro/Con: The program disables energy star mode so that it can pick up touch events throughout the night.(This feature wasn't in the original repo)
- Con: A new issue is that when the user drags, xprintidle cannot detect it.

## Requirements
install these packages:
```
sudo apt-get install libpcre3 libpcre3-dev xprintidle
```

## Running
Simply type in the terminal of the project's directory:
```
make
sudo ./timeout pi 30 event0
```
Where the `30` is 30 seconds of idleness.
Where `pi` is the user (you can get your username by typing `whoami` in a terminal).

## Systemd file setup for running script at boot:
Enter into a terminal:
```
sudo systemctl edit --full backlight_dimmer.service
```
if that doesn't work, then manually create the file with sudo nano:
```
sudo nano /etc/systemd/system/backlight_dimmer.service
```
Enter the following into the new file:

**Note: Change the ExecStart to your location of the timeout script**

**Note: Change the User to your username(by default it is `pi` on raspberry pi)**
```
[Unit]
Description=Used to dim a computer's backlight upon idleness

[Service]
ExecStartPre=/bin/sleep 11
# sleep time of 11 seconds from boot
ExecStart=/home/pi/Documents/Github/myForks/backlight_dimmer/timeout pi 30 event0
Environment=DISPLAY=:0

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target

```
Then start it!

```
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl restart backlight_dimmer.service
sudo systemctl enable backlight_dimmer.service
```

-----
# Backlight dimmer
Leaving the backlight on the Official Raspberry Pi touchscreen can quickly wear it out.
If you have a use that requires the pi to be on all the time, but does not require the
display on all the time, then turning off the backlight while not in use can dramatically
increase the life of the backlight.

Backlight dimmer will transparently dim the display backlight after there
has been no input for a specifed timeout, independent of anything using the display
at the moment. It will then turn the touchscreen back on when input is received. The
timeout period is set by a command-line argument.

~**Note:** This does not stop the event from getting to whatever is running on the
display. Whatever is running will still receive an event, even if the display
is off.~ Fixed in this Fork

The program will use a linux event device like `/dev/input/event0` to receive events
from the touchscreen, keyboard, mouse, etc., and `/sys/class/backlight/rpi-backlight/brightness`
to dim the backlight. The event device is a command-line parameter without the
/dev/input/ path specification.


&copy; Copyright 2019, Dougie Lawson, all rights reserved.
&copy; Copyright 2020, Nathan Ramanathan, all rights reserved.
